# Draw-Stats
Number combination probability generator.

Functions for generating number combination probabilities.

The intention of this block of code is to explore several probability algorithms and use them on statistical data gathered from real world random events. The goal is to filter out the most improbable outcomes and have only a small basket of highly probable outcomes. Events like a repeated combination of numbers are filtered out but since that is a possibility then the real outcome will be filtered out and in most cases the actual combination is removed.

That said, the code does what is intended and expected. It creates every 6/49 combination and eliminates uncommon combos based on some basic rules made from common observations of past draws. It also scans a database of past draws, which are in draw order, and builds a probability construct. The reason for draw order is due to calculating probability based on a per attempt draw from a set containing itself; meaning it is not based on a per draw day total. To explain this further, lets say the following numbers are drawn 3, 8, 48, 22, 39, 1. Instead of saying 39 happened once in 1 draws it can be said 39 was drawn once after 5 draws due to 3, 8, 48, 22, being drawn before the attempt that resulted in 39 being selected. Subsequent draws will no longer contain a set with 39 included and therefore not counted against that number. All remaining numbers would have 6 draw attempts and 0 successful attempts. This is done to gather a larger scope of data for calculations and used against a running global probability attempt counter used in correlating probability. Making only one ticket purchase a draw for several months showed a minor increase in small prize payouts and if I was to guess I would say the odds of winning increase by maybe 1-2%. The point of this project was not to win the lottery but to explore some ideas about probability and keep my coding skills active... and OK, it was fun!

I have uploaded the compressed data file with prebuilt combinations(Basefile.dat) and the past draws(PastDraws.csv) in draw order. I built the past draws file from a pdf sent to me from the people who run the Loto649 in Canada. After creating the file I had to manually input new draws after watching the results as the company did not publish draw order results regularly. The file is out of date and requires several years of draws to be added.

Update: I had used Github feature to build a quick to-do list with a bunch of method descriptions but that seems to have gone away. I will put this here from now on. 

Above is a very brief run down of calculating the probability of any number being drawn, the Number Probability list. Once I built the list I began to ask, how accurate is this list? or, How often does a number at the top(most probable) get pulled? To answer this question I created another probability list that calculates the probability of a position in the sorted Number probability list. Then I realized I could continue doing this as many times as I could, provided I had enough sample data. I figured around 500 draws is enough to start a new list. I mentioned in the To-Do section that this should be explored into neural networks as I had only heard of the topic and didn't know much at the time. I recently did some research and it seems I already have created something of a Forward Feeding Neural Network. The Feature Vectors are the structs. The lists are linked like layers and have a one-to-one reference relationship.  The only thing missing is how to calculate the weight, which I was not able to do since the layers were to many. After the research I now can see the weight can be calculated through backpropagation to find the sum of the probabilities. 

This is a very basic averaging probability and layers could be means squared or more accurate calculations.

One more thing. I did not intend on sharing this code so I didn't comment much. In the end days of this project it was obvious the I was not going to win consistently and I am not a gamber so I decided to stop working on it. Before I stopped I tried various "hail mary" experements to see if I could land a quick win. I do not know what version of the code this because I was going to delete it and didn't track the files. I also have not complied this and it might not compile without some work.
